speak to Dr mukash capill who's a former
emergencies doctor at the World Health
Organization he's also a professor
emiritus at the University of Manchester
joining us from Geneva doctor good to
have you with us on Al jazer what's your
um reaction to this news coming out of
the who saying Israel has agreed to
limited pauses and fighting to enable a
polio vaccination campaign do you
welcome this
news I think this is a a r is a good
news from the region and of course it to
be welcomed even if it's inspired by
Israel's self interest because obviously
conditions like polio respect no borders
having said that I think let's not
underestimate the uh complex Logistics
ahead almost certainly three days are
not going to be enough but it's good if
they have agreed that the Falls may be
expended may be extended um if if needed
I don't know whether we can build on
this and do some other immunization as
well and some other humanitarian aid but
of course that might be a prayer and a
wish too far what sort of impact do you
think this is going to have on actually
uh stopping the spread of polio because
eight agencies are saying that they must
reach 90% of the estimated 640,000
children uh in the Gaza Strip who are
under the age of
10 oh absolutely so uh this means almost
Universal coverage it's not a question
of a good enough job uh and at least 90%
if not more are going to be needed
including all the little ones who are
you know hidden away in here and there
in overcrowded camps and all sorts of
other locations and getting to and many
of them will be frightened many of them
will not trust what's going on because
they've already been uh bombed despite
being assured of the safety given
evacuation orders and so on so Outreach
from the a gencies Plus winning the
trust of the people so they bring the
children forward and they must be
absolutely frightened by everything
that's been going on is going to be
extremely important that's why I hope
very much that people are not fixated on
three days but they allow a decent
amount of time to get the job done when
you say decent amount of time um what do
you what do you mean by that exactly how
long well when I was dealing with
Afghanistan and uh uh even even the
Taliban allowed the poopes in the past
and they were for much longer periods so
sure three days is good and Gaza is a
small territory uh and the agencies are
ready and they've got plenty of supplies
and all that is good good stuff I I just
worry that excessive kind of Jubilation
at the beginning we don't want to
undermine the operation let's see how it
goes and I would think at least the week
is probably going to required to reach
the 90 plus Target that we must uh reach
on public health grounds and the Gaza
Strip of course has been polio free for
the last 25 years so how big a threat is
its emergence now and also uh when you
said that the PO polio doesn't really
respect borders is it a threat to other
regions as
well absolutely it's a threat to the
whole region obviously immunization
rates in Israel and Jordan neighboring
countries are probably much higher than
they are in Gaza however the uh during
generalized insecurity as you seen in
other countries the virus does spread
and when immunization rates go down even
down to their 80s then the risk gets
that much harder so I think getting this
under control inside Gaza is extremely
important uh obviously first and
foremost for the children inside Gaza
and we already know that polio is
present because the child has even been
semi paralyzed and if there's been one
child who's affected then we can be sure
there are others who who are just
stating the virus so already now I think
it is a little bit too late even if
you're talking about zero paralysis from
polio but this is why I'm a little bit
disappointed that we have to wait till
the 1st of February I don't see why we
cannot start this tonight or tomorrow
considering that for the last few days
people have been announcing very proudly
that so many vaccines have been supplied
and everyone is ready and everyone is
just waiting so why wait till the 1st of
September okay we'll have to leave it
there thank you so much Dr mes capill
thanks for joining us from
Geneva thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from
algera